Start writing the domain requirements for this project in the perspective of the client (i.e. Hospital). Kind of processes, flow, states, actors and their roles, permissions, etc. Try to write most you can... You can extract some topics from "Domain" labeled issues and develop it with more content.

This text will be part of your thesis chapter 2 and also acts like a "contract" with the hospital.

For now, for simplicity and quickness, you may write in Markdown. You may create a folder docs in this repo and an md file for each chapter. The GitHub will make a nice job rendering the output. Later you can copy and paste it to the thesis latex project.

Write in English and the first time you introduce a new term, put in parentheses () the corresponding portuguese translation. Such as:

The UIC (i.e. in pt "Unidade de Investigação Clínica") is an internal hospital department that is responsible for managing clinical Trials (i.e. in pt "ensaios clínicos").

BTW there is here some introductory text that can be useful to give some insights about the motivation and role of the UIC
https://portugalclinicaltrials.com/pt/centros-de-investigacao-clinica/hospital-professor-doutor-fernando-fonseca/



Descrição da instituição
O [Hospital Professor Doutor Fernando Fonseca (HFF)](https://hff.min-saude.pt/) constitui-se como hospital de primeira linha para os cerca de 550.000 habitantes dos Concelhos de Amadora e de Sintra. A Instituição desenvolve atividade assistencial e atividade de investigação, ensino e formação pré e pós-graduada.

O Hospital tem por missão a prestação de cuidados de saúde humanizados e diferenciados em todo o ciclo de vida da pessoa, em articulação com os cuidados de saúde primários e continuados, bem como com os demais Hospitais integrados na rede do Serviço Nacional de Saúde. Tem uma lotação praticada de 789 camas, destacando-se a existência de um Bloco Operatório com 11 salas.

Além dos serviços de urgência existentes no Hospital (Urgência Geral, Urgência de Obstetrícia e de Ginecologia e Urgência de Pediatria), o HFF também oferece à população um Serviço de Urgência Básica localizado na Freguesia de Algueirão - Mem Martins.

A Unidade Investigação Clínica (UIC) foi criada em março de 2018, e incorporou conceitos fundamentais de atuação que estão em linha com os objetivos estratégicos da instituição. A UIC é caracterizada por uma equipa multidisciplinar e responsável por assegurar rigor no planeamento científico dos estudos apresentados, pelo cumprimento das boas práticas clínicas por parte dos investigadores e pela negociação dos contratos dos projetos financiados por promotores externos. A UIC tem como missão promover a investigação clínica de qualidade, de forma sustentada e organizada, segundo padrões que valorizem o conhecimento sistematizado através da gestão de interfaces associadas à Investigação, Desenvolvimento e Inovação e cumprindo as disposições éticas e legais aplicáveis, em benefício do Hospital, da Comunidade, dos Doentes e das Famílias/Cuidadores. A Visão é ser uma referência da promoção das boas práticas na investigação clínica hospitalar e consolidar uma cultura científica transversal na instituição.

# Chapter 2 

This chapter consists of the introduction of the agencies involved in this application, as well as give a detailed view on the goals to be achieved in this thesis.

## Introduction

The [Hospital Professor Doutor Fernando Fonseca (HFF)](https://hff.min-saude.pt/), is a first of the line hospital for the near 550.000 habitants of the municipalities of Amadora and Sintra.
The Institution develops assistance and investigation activities as well as providing education, pre- and post-graduation training.

The Hospital's mission is to provide humanized and differentiated health care throughout a person's life cycle, in collaboration with primary and continuing health care, as well as other hospitals in the National Health Service's ("Serviço Nacional de Saúde") network.

The Clinical Investigation Unit ("Unidade de Investigação Clínica", UIC), created in March 2018, is an internal department within the Hospital that incorporated fundamental concepts of activities in line with the strategic objectives of the institution. The UIC is responsible for managing Clinical Investigations and is characterized by a multidisciplinary team responsible for ensuring accuracy in the scientific planning of the studies submitted, for the fulfillment of clinical best practices by researchers and for the negotiation of contracts for projects financed by external promoters.  
For the benefit of the Hospital, the Community, the Patients, and the Families/Caregivers, UIC's mission is to promote quality clinical investigation in an organized and sustainable manner, following templates that value systematic knowledge through the management of interfaces associated with Investigation, Development, and Innovation, and complying with the applicable ethical and legal provisions.  
The goal is to become a reference of the promotion of best practices in hospital clinical research and to consolidate a transversal scientific culture within the institution.  

Clinical Investigations are very important to the world of medicine and health care, since it's through them that new medicine and new ways of treatment are discovered and tested through adherence to strict scientific accuracy measurements and best practices before being administrated to the public. There are two main types of Clinical Investigations, without intervention, which includes Observational Trials ("Estudos Observacionais"), and with intervention, which includes Clinical Trials ("Ensaios Clínicos"), Clinical Investigations with intervention of medical devices and Clinical Investigations of cosmetic and body hygiene products.  
Observational Trials consist purely of observation, for example in the evaluation of a potential risk factor. On the other hand, Clinical Investigations with intervention can be characterized as any intervention that foresees any alteration, influence or change in schedule of health care in the behavior or knowledge of the participating patients or caretakers, with the end goal of discovering the effects it had on the participant's health.   
Clinical Trials consist of a scientific controlled investigation, done on humans (healthy or ill), with the end-goal of establishing or confirming the safety and efficiency of experimental medicine.  

Clinical Trials have shown to be a vital tool in the development and testing of vaccinations and treatments for the safety of the entire world population during the present Covid19 pandemic.  
The current procedure of a Clinical Investigation relies on email exchanges with the parties involved, which adds an unnecessary amount of effort in order to search through a great amount of emails. This also difficulties the management of Clinical Trials, from having an overview to the tracking of the state and state history of a particular Clinical Investigation. This inconvenience can cause a significant delay in the Clinical Investigation. Another concern is with the scheduling and monitoring of Clinical Trials patients, as there is little differentiation between the types of appointments made for each patient.  
In this context, the application detailed in this document, CASCIFFO, will provide a solution to enhance the efficiency in the management of Clinical Investigations.


## CASCIFFO

CASCIFFO is a joint project between [HFF](https://hff.min-saude.pt/) and [ISEL](https://www.isel.pt/). It concerns the application to the Clinical Investigation Agency Award and Biomedical Innovation (AICIB).  
CASCIFFO is a platform that aligns with the UIC's goals by promoting efficiency and quality in the management of clinical research.
CASCIFFO strives to make the visualization, monitoring, and management of clinical Trials as simple and straightforward as possible.
It will allow the UIC/HFF to be modernized, bringing a shift in how patients, researchers, and promoters view and value their institution.  

The application aims to develop and provide innovative mechanisms for interoperability with internal and external information systems, allowing, when desired, data synchronization, index search, identification data management and even access to detailed clinical data.
CASCIFFO consists of two core modules, the front-end and the back-end. The front-end supports interaction with users while the back-end connects to an internal database system to the HFF/UIC and which aggregates the total information of this ecosystem.  
The main features of CASCIFFO can be seperated into 3 groups, which are: general functionalities, clinical component and financial component.  
1) General features  
   - Visualization and management of Clinical Trials as a process; 
   - Ability to edit and validate data (edit checks); 
   - Creation and management of online queries (in-form query); 
   - Access control based on different user profiles; 
   - Access by computer, tablet or smartphone; 
   - Ability to export information in numerical or graphical mode; 
   - Ability to customize the form of visualization.
2) Clinical Component
   - View detailed characteristics and evolution of clinical Trials including the tested medicine or technique in question;
   - Monitoring the set of patients included in clinical Trials and their characteristics;
   - Insertion of patient data in face-to-face or teleconsultation;
   - Inclusion of Supplementary Diagnostic Therapy (MCDT) associated with (ECG, RX, etc.);
   - Characteristics of the treatment associated with the clinical trial and monitoring of the patient’s behavior under trial and its attendance;
   - Pharmacy monitoring (Reception, dispensing, return, stock);
   - Monitoring of visits;
   - Recording of adverse events associated with patients due to the trial drug.


### Access control
Given the nature of the platform CASCIFFO, where many actors are at play, there needs to be a well-defined structure of controlled access. Each involved actor must have a role and a set of permissions. The actors involved within the application are the UIC, Administrative Council ("Concelho Administrativo", CA), the Financial and Juridical department, UIC Support Office ("Gabinete de apoio à UIC", GAUIC) and finally a Superuser. These actors have been categorized, in the format Role={Actor}, as follows:  
- UIC={UIC, GAUIC}  ⇒ Baseline of permissions, each user belonging to this role can view any clinical investigation, create, edit and cancel their own clinical investigations.
- Finance={Financial department} ⇒ Can validate clinical Trials financial component.
- Juridical={Juridical department} ⇒ Can validate clinical Trials juridical component.
- Management={CA} ⇒ Can validate/cancel pending clinical investigation proposals.
- Superuser={} ⇒ Has absolute control over the application.

## Processes
This section details the types of processes occurring within the scope of the project.
There 3 identified processes, which are the validation of a clinical investigation proposal, the clinical Trials.

### Clinical investigation proposals
From the moment and clinical investigation is proposed, it follows through a series of states, a workflow, and protocols that must be adhered to in order for it to be completely validated.
There are 2 types of clinical investigations: Clinical Trials and Observational Trials These types have common states and a set of states dedicated to them.
Each state has an entity responsible for advancing the state. 
The flow of states is as follows:  
1) `Submetido`, `owner=UIC`
2) `Negociação de CF`, `owner=UIC`
3) `Validação interna`, `owner=Finance,Juridical`
4) `Validação externa`, `owner=UIC`
5) `Submissão ao CA`, `owner=UIC`
6) `Validação interna`, `owner=Management`

The enumerated set of states corresponds to the lifecycle of a Clinical Trial proposal. An Observational Trial consists of the states {1,4,5,6}; it doesn't have a financial component.

Besides this flow there is another sub-process that occurs parallel to it from the moment a proposal is created, the [validation] protocol.

## Functional Requirements
In this section the functional requirements alongside the appropriate mock user interfaces (UI) that will satisfy the requirement.

### 
