# Chapter 3
This chapter consists of a detailed view over the inner workings and functional requirements of the platform CASCIFFO.
It is structured with the following sections:
- Access control: Identification and categorization of actors and their roles.
- Processes: Identification and detailing of the flow of processes.
- Functional Requirements: Description of functional requirements.

## Access control
Given the nature of the platform CASCIFFO, where many actors are at play, there needs to be a well-defined structure of access control. Each involved actor must have a role and a set of permissions. The actors involved within the application are the UIC, Administrative Council ("Concelho Administrativo", CA), the Financial and Juridical department, UIC Support Office ("Gabinete de apoio à UIC", GAUIC) and finally a Superuser. These actors have been categorized, in the format Role={Actor}, as follows:  
- UIC={UIC, GAUIC} ⇒ baseline of permissions, each user belonging to this role can view any Clinical Investigation, create, edit and cancel their own Clinical Investigations.
- Finance={Financial department} ⇒ Can validate Clinical Trials financial component.
- Juridical={Juridical department} ⇒ Can validate Clinical Trials juridical component.
- Management={CA} ⇒ Can validate/cancel pending Clinical Investigation proposals.
- Superuser={} ⇒ Has absolute control over the application.

## Processes
This section details the types of processes occurring within the scope of the project.  
There are three identified processes, which consists of the lifecycle of a Clinical Investigation proposal, its validation and the Clinical Trials lifecycle.

### Clinical Investigation proposals
From the moment and Clinical Investigation is proposed, it follows through a series of states, a workflow, and protocols that must be adhered to in order for it to be completely validated.
There are two types of Clinical Investigations: Clinical Trials and Observational Trials These types have common states and a set of states dedicated to them.
Each state has an entity responsible (`owner`) for advancing the state. 
The flow of states is as follows:  
1) `Submetido`, `owner=UIC`
2) `Negociação de CF`, `owner=UIC`
3) `Validação interna`, `owner=Finance,Juridical`
4) `Validação externa`, `owner=UIC`
5) `Submissão ao CA`, `owner=UIC`
6) `Validação interna`, `owner=Management`

The enumerated set of states corresponds to the lifecycle of a Clinical Trial Proposal. An Observational Trial Proposal consists of the enumerated states {1,4,5,6}; it lacks a financial component and a promoter.  

Alongside this process, another sub-process, the [validation] protocol involved in the proposal's evolution.  
The purpose of this protocol is to validate the Clinical Investigation's ethical and safety values.  
When a proposal is submitted, this protocol begins in a manner that is parallel to the mentioned flow of states.  The proposal is sent to external agencies for review and approval, including the [Clinical Investigations Ethics Comity ("Comissão de Ética para Investigação Clínica", CEIC)](https://www.ceic.pt/) followed by [INFARMED, I.P](https://www.infarmed.pt/web/infarmed) and the General Regulation of Data Protection ("Regulação Geral de Proteção de Dados", RGPD).  
When a proposal has passed through the described validation protocol and has been fully validated within the HFF/UIC internal departments, it can proceed to the next stage, the Clinical or Observational Trial.  

Each proposal is distinguished by five main properties, the principal investigator, the type of investigation, the type of therapeutic service it's integrated into (i.e Oncology), the `Sigla` which represents the name of the therapeutic or medicine and the partnerships involved in the investigation.  
Proposals with a financial component must also include the promoter of the investigation, in addition to the properties listed.  

### Clinical Trials
The lifecycle of a Clinical Trial is divided into three stages: active, completed, and canceled.  
During the active stage, the principal investigator of the Clinical Trial will monitor, schedule appointments and manage the patients involved 

## Functional Requirements
This section details the functional requirements and presents a mock user interface (UI) that will satisfy the requirement.
The main features of CASCIFFO can be separated into 3 groups, which are: general functionalities, clinical component and financial component.  
1) General features  
   - Visualization and management of Clinical Trials as a process; 
   - Ability to edit and validate data (edit checks); 
   - Creation and management of online queries (in-form query); 
   - Access control based on different user profiles; 
   - Access by computer, tablet or smartphone; 
   - Ability to export information in numerical or graphical mode; 
   - Ability to customize the form of visualization.
2) Clinical Component
   - View detailed characteristics and evolution of clinical Trials including the tested medicine or technique in question;
   - Monitoring the set of patients included in clinical Trials and their characteristics;
   - Insertion of patient data in face-to-face or teleconsultation;
   - Inclusion of Supplementary Diagnostic Therapy (MCDT) associated with (ECG, RX, etc.);
   - Characteristics of the treatment associated with the clinical trial and monitoring of the patient’s behavior under trial and its attendance;
   - Pharmacy monitoring (Reception, dispensing, return, stock);
   - Monitoring of visits;
   - Recording of adverse events associated with patients due to the trial drug.  

### 
